Let’s look at Matthew 11:29 in its entirety.
It comes after Jesus made
a rather profound statement in verse 27.
Do you have that?
At Matthew 11:27, Jesus said:
“All things have been handed over to me
by my Father,
“and no one fully knows the Son
except the Father;
“neither does anyone fully know the Father
“except the Son [but then he adds]
and anyone to whom the Son
is willing to reveal him.”
Isn’t that profound?
Part of Jesus’ mission in coming to the earth
was to more clearly reveal
Jehovah’s thinking and personality.
Now, with that thought in mind,
let’s read verse 29:
“Take my yoke upon you and learn from me,
“for I am mild-tempered and lowly in heart,
and you will find
refreshment for yourselves.”
Verse 30 adds the detail:
“For my yoke is kindly,
and my load is light.”
I think we all know what it means
—being “mild-tempered.”
But what about “lowly in heart”?
Well, our study note explains that
that means “humble and unpretentious.”
Now, what can we glean
if we magnify
verse 29?
Well, let’s start with the yoke.
That’s a neck yoke depicted on-screen,
and I think we can often picture
two animals yoked together.
In this case, it’s a head yoke.
By the look on the cattle’s faces,
they don’t seem particularly thrilled
to be yoked together like that.
But it allows them
to unitedly pull in the same direction
and accomplish a common task.
However, Jesus said in verse 30:
“My yoke is kindly.”
Some farmers
kindly padded the yoke for that purpose.
Jesus’ yoke is comfortable for us.
But did you notice in the verse he said:
“Take my yoke”?
What are we to understand from that?
Well, Insight  offers two possibilities.
The first is that if Jesus’ yoke
is one that Jehovah places on Jesus,
then that signifies that others
can get under the yoke with Jesus,
and he’ll assist them.
But the second possibility
is that if Jesus’ yoke
refers to one that Jesus puts on us,
then the reference is that we submit
to his authority and direction
as his disciples.
The September 2019 Watchtower
alludes to those same two possibilities.
Now, the yoke is an illustration.
Our publications have applied it
to Jesus putting his yoke on us.
Let’s extend the illustration a little.
Farmers often trained their oxen
to respond to verbal commands
so that they could keep
their hands on the plow
and did not have to deal
with the reins and the plow.
The Governing Body
could be likened to the voice of Jesus,
the head of the congregation.
So when we willingly submit
to the faithful slave,
we’re ultimately submitting
to Jesus’ authority and direction.
And that nicely harmonizes
with Matthew 28:18-20.
You recall that Jesus had
considerable authority
as a human on earth.
But looking at the context of Matthew 28:18,
Jesus’ words here were spoken
after he was resurrected to spirit life.
Now, he had not yet ascended to his Father,
but since Jehovah spoke to him as a human,
likely he communicated with Jesus
immediately after his resurrection
because that was
the ultimate sacrifice for mankind.
So now, the resurrected Jesus
says at Matthew 28:18:
“All authority [all authority]
has been given me
in heaven and on the earth.”
Well, back to Matthew 11:29,
it says that if we take that yoke,
we “will find refreshment for [ourselves].”
That sounds wonderful
—doesn’t it?—
relaxing, luxurious, sweet refreshment.
But that’s not the intent.
A yoke does not represent a vacation.
A yoke in and of itself implies work.
A farmer does not put cattle in a yoke
and send them out to graze
in a refreshing pasture.
He puts them in a yoke to accomplish work.
But Jesus now has authority in heaven.
So the resurrected
anointed ones’ refreshment
does not mean floating on a cloud
and strumming a harp,
as Christendom sometimes suggests.
Jesus’ personality
did not change when he went to heaven.
And a yoke refers to meaningful work.
But Jesus is mild-tempered.
So that work is kindly and refreshing.
And just think of the near future.
Try to imagine all of the anointed
following Jesus’ direction at Armageddon.
They’re going to assist
in dismantling Satan’s entire wicked system.
That is work.
But since it’s under Jesus’ direction,
that work is refreshing.
It’s invigorating.
It’s fulfilling.
And for those of us on earth,
refreshment does not mean
lounging in our favorite easy chair
with the beverage of our choice.
We have work to do.
But the yoke is padded.
It’s kindly.
We don’t chafe under it.
Jesus is mild-tempered.
Now go back to Matthew 11:29.
If you notice, Jesus said:
“And learn from me.”
Why did he include those words?
The sentence would have made
perfect sense without them.
But he specifically said:
“And learn from me.”
Now, why might that be significant?
Well, what about contrast?
Who had Jesus’ followers
learned from all their lives?
It was the religious leaders of the day.
What a contrast
between their attitude and personality
when compared with Jesus!
Go to Matthew chapter 23, please.
His disciples had learned
from the scribes and Pharisees,
and so they had picked up flaws
in their attitude and personality.
And as we read Matthew 23:4,
please allow Matthew 11:30
to be ringing in your ear.
Do you recall?
Jesus said: “My load is light.”
Well, what had
the disciples learned previously
from the religious leaders?
Matthew 23:4:
“They bind up [not light but] heavy loads
and put them on the shoulders of men.”
And if you glance at verse 5,
you’ll see that they like
to piously “be seen by men.”
They liked the most prominent seats
and meals in the synagogue.
But now in verse 11
(learn from Jesus),
he said: “But the greatest one among you
must be your minister.”
Do you remember an entrenched personality
flaw of the apostles?
They often defaulted into arguing
about who was the greatest one among them.
They likely learned that
from the religious leaders’ poor example.
So it makes sense in our text today
that Jesus pleaded:
“Learn from me.”
In effect, he said, ‘I am different; learn.’
“I am mild-tempered and lowly in heart.”
While the yoke of Jesus
does definitely include disciple-making,
we need to learn from Jesus
in all aspects of Christian discipleship.
First Peter 2:21 says:
‘He left a model
for us to follow his steps closely.’
That verse, the context,
does not talk about the preaching work.
It’s talking about dealing with suffering
and interpersonal relationships.
For example, 1 Peter 3:1 says:
“In the same way [as the model], you wives,
be in subjection to your husbands.”
First Peter 3:7 says:
‘In the same way, husbands, treat your wife.’
In chapter 3 and verse 8,
it’s addressed to all of us
interacting with one another.
It has four beautiful Christlike qualities
that we need to display with one another.
Now, it’s true that because of imperfection
and misunderstandings,
we all make mistakes.
But the baseline is
to learn from Jesus,
including the fact that he was mild-tempered
and lowly in heart.